Now that we have a desktop version of
our grid system, let's go through and
add to this now,
the mobile versions of this.
So to get started with that, what I'm
going to do is, I'm going to take my,
just these span type of items
that are down here at the bottom,
the span, two, three and four.
I'm going to contain those
inside of a media query.
And I'm just a add media.
And we'll say it's a mean width of 1000
pixels, which may not work well on
the display that I'm using here right now,
so I may need to adjust that a little bit.
But it probably will work
fine on your monitor.
I've got mine kinda scrunched
down a little bit here,
so you can see my code nice and big.
Or we get in depth that a little bit.
Now notice I did not include my grid
declaration here inside of this
particular media query and
the reason why is.
Because, in this particular case,
I'm gonna have a tablet media query
where I'm gonna declare my grid and
all of the parameters there in that will
cascade into my desktop media query later.
So I don't need to redeclarer, display
grid and all of that other additional
information, I can declare it once inside
of the tablet and it will cascade into my
desktop media queries because I'm
using men with media queries and
we'll stack them up on top of each other.
In fact,
I'm gonna back this off to 800 pixels, so
we have a little bit more room
on my particular monitor.
You can keep yours at a thousand
if that works better.
Maybe I even need to back it off further.
Like 700, something like that anyway,
then up here, around my wrapper.
I'm gonna set this up with
a media query as well.
This will be at media and
we'll say a min width have 600 pixels
And well,
the curly bracket down here on the bottom.
We'll dump this.
So that'll get us started here
looking at this both on tablet and
then later on desktop.
What we need to do now is to think
about exactly how this is going to work
across our various breakpoints.
And we are going to use exactly the same
model that we use with Flexbox.
So we're gonna have to
think about how some
of these layouts are gonna change
over the course of working on this.
We go, so
right now here's the desktop layout.
Okay, so there's the desktop
layout as we've got it.
And one of the things we need to add to
that desktop layout real quick before
I move on is some ordering down here
on the bottom for this last row.
Remember we wanted that in
the 121 configuration, and
right now we have 211 for
that configuration.
So let's add that before we move on,
and so down here in desktop
media query,
let's add some additional styles to this.
We can add ordering to this, it works
exactly the same way it does in Flexbox,
exactly the same property and
all the rest of it which is really nice.
So I'm gonna create a class
of order let's say order 2.
With an order of 2 and we'll set up
one with an order of 1 just like that,
and then in our HTML you have small I
can make this go up here in our HTML,
then we can add to this additional
classes to deal with the ordering.
So, here in our first cell
we want this to be order 2.
And then in these other figures,
this next figure specifically,
we'll have a class of order 1, and
that will swap things around nicely.
And maybe we have to add one
more with a class of order 3,
and we can write in that class
down here, order 3.
And so now you should see that
the way that you wanted it to go.
All right, so order 1, order 2, order 3
all lined up here in that particular row
as you would expect, because it's here
on the desktop that will reorder here It
won't reorder necessarily on the tablet,
unless we specifically want to do
something different on the tablet,
which we don't necessarily.
And then of course on mobile,
it's going to display in source order.
We won't actually put anything
outside the media queries here dealing
with layout because what we'll
do outside of the media queries,
these are just a bunch of figures
which are block display by default.
They will just stack on top of
each other going down the page,
which is often the layout that
you want on mobile anyway.
There are some other styles that are down
here later in the document that provide
the default styling.
None of these styles have anything to
do with the layout of the web page.
Okay, so now the desktop is done as
we move on to our tablet display.
Let's get to our appropriate breakpoint,
which looks like right about in there.
And so here, what I'd like to
have happen is I'd like my
this row of four boxes that first row,
I'd like it to turn into two
boxes spanning over two columns,
or effectively that followed by two
more boxes spanning over two columns.
So we can write that fairly
easily here as well.
And we're gonna leverage more of those
span properties that we used earlier.
So here what I'm gonna do,
is I'm gonna say figure,
just my generic HTML figure element.
Remember, all the classes come later.
They're also more specific.
So they're gonna override
whatever I put here.
So for figure I'm going to
say grid column span 2,
see how nicely that is we don't
have to do it once again,
still no math, no worrying about the gap,
taking that into consideration,
all of that kind of thing.
So here's my first row.
Very simply went ahead and
distributed itself very, very nicely.
We'll have some more tweaks here
to make a little bit later on.
When we go to our desktop though,
notice that It's gonna continue on.
And that is because
these in this first row,
we just have a series of figure elements.
We're gonna need to override that
layout when we get to our desktop.
So here in our desktop layout,
we can say our figure.
We'll wind up being a grid column
Of span one,
basically span across one column.
So there it is working nicely on desktop.
And when we go to tablet there
it is working nicely on tablet.
So row one is all done.
Row two, we want it to be two across here.
And when we go to tablet layouts,
we want it to remain that way so
we don't have any changes we need to make
here on tablet for that particular item.
For row number three, remember,
we want the one on desktop
that took up three columns.
We want it to take up the full width here.
And the one next to it, we want it
to take up the full width as well.
So let's write some styling for that.
We had a class of span three
which now we can repurpose
here in our tablet media query will just
simply say grid column of spanned four.
So now it will take up that full row.
Now this other individual box
here inside of row three,
it's just a figure all by itself.
We want this one to behave
a little bit differently.
Its default figure behavior is to
take up one column on desktop and
two columns on tablet.
But in this case, we wanted to
take up one column on desktop and
four columns on tablet.
So we are going to write a style for
that as well And I'm gonna call this style
Class of you could do something like
span 1, LG, something like that.
And what might be your name for
that particular class and
then you can write it here.
Span, in fact we can combine it.
Right here with span 3,
we could say, span 1-LG.
So that's gonna have that
property of spanning 4 columns.
And now it does but I will also do so
on desktop because we haven't told it
to go back to one column on desktop.
So we'll need to override
that when we get to desktop.
And so here with our figure
that now spans one column,
we can combine that and
say that span 1-LG.
We'll also span 1 column.
And so it does, so far,
things are looking good for
our first three rows on both tablet,
there it is.
There's the tablet And on the desktop.
So, now, row number four,
remember it needs to span across four
columns on tablet, and on desktop.
We actually have that style
here on desktop already.
We could just simply cut and paste that
from the desktop to the tablet media
query because we actually want
the same behavior at both breakpoints.
So we'll specify it on tablet and
it'll carry through into
the desktop media query.
So there that one is on tablet
there it is on desktop.
And then in our last row always a little
bit trickier than the other ones.
We want to have this first cell
we'd like that to stretch across
maybe the full width.
And then the other two cells to be
on the next row just as they were,
and so
we can set up some styling for that.
So what I'm gonna do here for row number
five, this first box we've called it
a just a regular old span 2 before, what
I'm going to do now is change this and
I'm gonna call it a span 2 hyphen,
whatever.
-Medium, -large, something like that.
And and
then we can set up a class for that.
What I'd like it to do at
the tablet media query is I'd like
it to span across four columns
So we can say span 4-MD.
Let me fix the HTML.
This is a span 4-MD as well.
And then all we have to do is just change
it down here inside of the desktop.
So span 2, and
span 4-MD will have that same behavior.
Oops.
Okay, so
there's the lineup here on the desktop and
when we go to our tablet layout, there's
the one spanning across the full width.
And we have the two cells
here that show up underneath.
Everything is looking great.
If the grid gap here strikes you is
a little bit big you could always change
that here inside of your tablet media
query maybe you wanna go down to something
like 2% here on the wrapper,
maybe tighten things up a little bit,
even 1% maybe you want them
even a little bit tighter.
You could do a combination
of numbers here 2%
1% sorry, the other way around 1%, 2%.
We'll get you slightly different
dimensions when it will be columns
the other will be rows.
So you can put in two numbers like that
to make this look a little bit better
on tablet.
And of course then when you get down
here to your desktop, if you want to
go back to that full 4% gap then you just
write a style for that wrapper gap 4%.
So you can override anything
anywhere along the way.
Again, that's not necessarily something
that we do so much with Flexbox, but
it is absolutely possible to
do very easily with grid.
And it's really nice because always
the math is done for you in grid,
whereas you're gonna have to do
that math yourself with Flexbox.
So this is some pointers on how you can
write your own grid system using CSS grid.
So again, this is something that you
can do to get away from using some of
the responsive design frameworks.
You don't have to buy into
a bootstrap type of grid system or
anything else you as you see here, it's
pretty straightforward to write something
with grid that's very, very lightweight
and will do exactly what you want.
You can program all of the behaviors that
you want across the various breakpoints
really pretty easily, just by counting
how wide you want things in terms of
the number of boxes as opposed to Flexbox
where you do have to do real math.